# Trash-Pickup-Robot
The goal of this project was to document how to build and code one’s own robot using ROBOTIS programs. After brainstorming ideas, the robot was designed it in R+ Design, a program available on ROBOTIS’s website. The goal of this robot was to be able to sense trash in front of it, or really any object. Inspired from the movie Wall-E, the arms of the robot were designed to scoop the objects in front of it and then lift and drop it into the back of the robot, where there was a container to hold the objects/trash. However, this function was only to happen if the robot sensed something in front of it, not just grabbing at empty space. To make this happen, the controller was used to determine which direction the robot would go in, and then have it grab and lift only if it sensed something while going forward.

First, the robot was designed off of sample robots with it’s own spin using the program R+ Design. Using the STEM kit, available on ROBOTIS’s website, the trash pickup robot was built, using the design from R+ Design as a blueprint. R+ Task 3.0, a coding program, was used to plan the robots motions and actions. R+ Task 3.0 has two different functions, coding and planning motions. The coding part of this program resembles the language C++, using block coding to best aid with student learning. For the coding aspect, previous code using the controller was used, in addition to unique code that would allow the IR sensor to trigger a motion file. The motion file is the other half of R+ Task 3.0, where the arms of the robot were programmed. After connecting the motors of the robot to this program, the robot’s motions could be planned out by altering each Dynamixel’s orientation and using “sync mode” to watch the motions happen in real time. The next step was to download this motion to the controller, and then reference it in the code. After downloading the code to the robot, the robot could play and function as programmed, picking up whatever it came across as it moved around. After documenting these steps, students should be able to learn and apply these steps to their own future projects.
